This is Jockel Podcast number 170.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, Echo.
Good evening.
It is time for some Q&A.
Okay. It has been a while.
Yeah.
It's been a while for sure.
So let's question.
Questions from the interwebs.
Yes indeed.
As it is.
Said, okay, first question.
Jockel.
I'm taking over leadership of a team of six people.
Two, I know and four, I don't.
When you've taken over leadership, did you want give a group talk?
Two, meet with each individual and three.
What did you say?
Good question.
Yes, obviously give a group talk.
That's affirmative.
You get everyone together.
Hey guys, my name is Bill.
I came from this place.
I'm here to take over.
Now, there's a, some judgment calls that you have to make.
Because you're going to introduce yourself.
But if you're taking over a well functioning team, then guess what?
You're not going into revamp everything immediately.
Because everything's going fine.
So you're, hey, I'm happy to be working with you guys.
Looking forward to it.
I know you guys have a great reputation.
Glad to be a part of the team.
Awesome.
If you have any questions, let me know.
I'm here.
That's easy.
If you're taking over a team that's not working well.
Like there's problems.
And that's why if somebody got fired, and that's why you're coming in there, you might need to address some of those things.
Hey, listen, I know things have been a little off track.
I'm going to look at what's going on.
I'm going to take input from you guys.
We probably need to make some changes.
We're going to do it together as a team.
That's what we're moving from here.
We need to get back to where we're supposed to be.
Boom, something like that.
And again, there's going to be people on that team that have been busting their ass and working really hard.
And if you go in there and just to spare it, everyone, they're, you're going to start off on the wrong foot.
So, yeah, have keep it pretty broad when you meet the whole group.
Hey, this is who I am.
This is where I came from.
This is what I'm looking forward to.
All that stuff.
And then yes, do you meet with people individually?
Absolutely.
You go around.
You meet with them.
And when you, what are you talking about?
You're talking about them.
You want to know about them.
You want to know who they, they are.
You want to know what their, what their family situation is.
What their interests are, what's going on.
How they feel about the transitions that have been taken place a little bit of that stuff.
It's not about you.
It's about them.
So go.
Yes, and talk to everyone.
Take notes.
Maybe not right in front of them.
So you look like a nerd.
But, you know, afterward you go, hey, Bill has three kids.
His wife also works at the company.
He's interested in soccer and basketball.
Whatever you just take those notes.
You know, it's actually good before you take some,
it's an over a situation.
If you already familiarize yourself with us,
you look at the maybe the HR website at your company has a picture of everyone.
So you kind of know who they are.
Give you less stuff to remember.
So there's that.
Make good first impression.
Don't go in there.
Looking like an idiot.
Don't go in there thinking that.
Oh, I just, I'm the boss man.
So everyone has to bow down.
And bow down to my superiority.
No, they're actually mad at you.
Yeah.
The thing is they're mad at you.
So I remember one time I was taking over a small element.
And one of my friends was a part of the element.
And I went in, like 20 guys.
I went in, hey.
And I walked in, but I just had a notebook with like five things.
I wanted to talk to them about.
And as soon as I walked in, I opened up my notebook and he's said something like,
You brought a notebook, you're always squared away.
That's why you're putting in charge.
That's why your put in charge.
So like just a little impression of, hey man, I'm, I take this stuff seriously.
And I would say overall, your main goal when you're meeting your team,
when you're meeting the individuals on your team,
is you are looking to build relationships with the people on the team.
That's what your goal is because when you build these relationships,
that's going to make your team stronger, et cetera.
Yeah.
Remember the time when you were on yoga,
Rog and the first time when he was like, hey, you're the only ones who's ever brought a note pad.
You know, and you're like, just trying to be prepared.
Just trying to be prepared.
It was good.
Okay, so there's anything, you know, you know,
your outfit comes up.
You don't want it to slip your mind.
Yeah, yeah, that's funny.
And I'm trying to imagine being a worker,
and you know, when you get a new manager, you know, whatever new boss.
You know, the come in.
Yeah, if they were like having an individual meeting,
I would dig it, and then, but if they're like taking notes, I'd be like, wait,
where are you taking notes?
Like, well, how are you going to use this?
Yeah, you know, against me later or something like that?
No, sort of, hey, is it all?
Hey, man, how's it going?
How long you've been here for?
Oh, I've been here for four years.
Oh, cool.
Do you, you married?
Yeah, yeah, I got two kids.
Oh, that's awesome.
That's awesome.
How long you've been married for?
Oh, six years.
Like that.
You're getting no the person.
If I go in there and I go, how long you've been here?
And you're like six years and I write it down.
Yeah, right.
And then I say, what, what is your primary function here at the team?
You know what I mean?
If you just jump right into that, we're not looking to build relationship.
We're just looking to find out how I can use you.
Yeah, that's what it feels like.
Yeah, I mean, you said it like, you're like, oh, long you've been married.
You said it like that, no, man, doesn't matter how you say, you could say it
the most nice polite way ever.
And when you write it down, it's kind of like, bro, like,
you're going to take all this information and sort of do some sort of
evaluation for me.
You know, kind of, it's what it feels like.
It does feel like that.
That's why I specifically said when you're having a personal conversation with a person
that you're meeting for the first time, you're not scratching it into a
note pad.
Yeah.
Now that being said, if the guy says, you know what?
I've noticed some things here around here that need changing.
You go really hold on a second.
Yeah.
Let me break out my notebook here and take notes on what you're about to say.
Yeah, that's a dance.
You know, if you, yes, like when you get a micromanager, you're working for a
micromanager, bring a notebook.
They see you write and stuff down.
They think they're like happy.
Yeah, trick anyone.
Yeah, because when you're writing down there stuff, that's how it slips the
script.
It makes it like, oh, yeah.
Yeah, he's taking notes to support you.
Yeah, I'm saying, yeah, yeah, I think he's going to evaluate my opinion.
Oh, yeah, that's good.
Well, well, and there with the notebook.
It's like the doctor.
You know, when you go to the doctor and he's asking, oh, yeah, like all the
stuff you see him writing down, you know, in your chart, whatever, even though
a doctor situation is good, because you want him to go evaluate it later, whatever,
you don't give you cure, but same deal, man, same deal,
you're with those notes.
Yeah, my saint.
Jack, Jack, that goes not prepared for you to take notes on a week.
Not with, well, now my personal stuff, how long you've been married?
Oh, nine years old, keep nine years.
It will grab.
You're in your next question.
Next question.
I'm a sergeant, and I want to know how to deal with my men in a way without
punishment, but still make them better for next time.
Okay, here's something for you.
Punishment is actually the last straw in how you deal with people that you're in
charge of.
In fact, I will tell you this, if I ever had to punish someone, when I had to
administer punishment on my troops, I always felt that I had to, somewhere
I had done some wrong, right?
Like, even if a guy got in trouble out in town, got drunk, got in a fight,
did something stupid.
I would still look at that and think to myself, how could I have allowed this guy
to not realize what a disaster it is, how much trouble he's going to get in,
what kind of international incident he's going to cause, how that's going to
hurt us in the team strategically, all those things.
How did I let that happen?
So, dolling out punishment is not optimal.
I mean, you've pretty much, you've pretty much made a mistake if you have to
punish people because if you're doing, if you're being a good leader, people are
doing what you want them to do.
There's no reason for punishment.
So, that's what you should not be looking to punish and just like I just said, you should be looking to build relationships.
You should be looking to show people a better way of doing things, a way that's more
smooth and more efficient and doesn't disrupt what the team efforts are.
You've got to explain to people why they're doing what they're doing.
This is all stuff, right?
This is to explain why things are done a certain way.
Explain how it impacts the team, explain how it impacts them.
That's all so important.
You've got to have people rehearse in, in retrain because now I'm talking to, how do you get people to do the right thing, right?
Without punishing them.
So, we're trying to avoid punishment.
How do we avoid punishment?
How do we avoid punishment by people understanding what they're doing, why they're doing what they're doing.
How do we avoid punishment by setting goals that make sense that are small enough for them to get to?
And then have fun with the goals and get in the game yourself and show them that you're not perfect.
And that is what you need to do.
You need to make every effort to make people understand why they're doing, what they're doing, how they fit into the big picture.
And when they figure all that stuff out and they're on board, you shouldn't have to punish people.
You shouldn't have to punish people.
So, I know it's, yeah, that's what it is.
You're your sergeant and you want to do it through men, we're away without punishment.
Well, think of what the mistakes you're making.
When you're when you're fire team or your, your, your pulltune does something wrong.
Why did they make that mistake?
They make the mistake as they wanted to.
No, they made it because you were a bad leader at that point in time.
You, what could you do better?
Hey guys, where, what did you understand?
Oh, you guys messed up this training operation.
I'm going to restrict your weekend duty.
I'm going to restrict you to weekend duty.
Meaning you can't go out and tell.
What, what good did I just do?
Right?
Are they going to try harder now?
But if you say, hey, listen, guys, we did a bad job.
I know I must have made a mistake in trying to explain this information to you all,
because we didn't do what we were supposed to do.
Let's look, let's dissect this thing.
As a matter of fact, let's spend Friday night dissecting this thing.
I'm buying pizza, then we'll sit around the, the sand table and we'll figure out what,
what we did wrong.
That's not punishment.
That has the opposite effect of punishment.
That has, hey, I'm bringing everyone in because I want to win.
I want us all to win.
So that's what you got to do.
Don't punishment should be punishment should be, I mean, do you have to punish people sometimes?
Yes, yes you do.
When they're blatantly out of line when they do something that's blatantly wrong.
Yeah, you got to drop the hammer on them.
You got to set the example sometimes.
How you're not going to get away with this?
Sometimes that happened in the dreams.
You know, somebody would do something stupid.
And the command would just drop the hammer.
And everyone goes, man, that guy got a DUI and they, you know,
docked him, they busted him in rank and they pulled him out of his platoon.
And they're sending him to a, to a fleet billet for two years.
But you're my god.
That might make someone think, right?
You know, maybe I won't step behind the wheel.
Yeah.
So sometimes you do have to punish if people do something stupid,
especially after they've been warned a couple times.
Yeah.
But I always look if I have to deliver punishment on my team.
I made a mistake somewhere.
I don't like it.
Yeah.
Don't they say that like reward and encouragement is like way more powerful than punished.
Definitely way more powerful.
Way more powerful.
For sure.
Seems like it.
I've almost never punished people.
Yeah.
But the reason is why did I punish people?
Because people were doing, weren't doing stupid things.
They were doing what they were supposed to be doing.
They were doing.
Yeah.
I mean, I probably, I don't even know if I,
I probably, I think I had like a one or two captains mass where I had to bring somebody in and drop the hammer on them.
It's because they did dumb stuff.
Yeah.
It's like, man, you know what?
You can't do that.
I didn't think of it.
I'm sorry.
But you can't do that.
Yeah.
Pre-persons.
Next question.
Jockel.
In the discipline equals freedom field manual, the section fear reads.
How do you overcome fear of failure?
Step.
Go.
But a previous entry reads,
I don't want you to overcome fear of failure.
I want you to be afraid of failure.
Mind the elaborating.
Yeah.
Clearly, there's a dichotomy here.
I know it's my favorite word apparently according to Dean Lister.
Yes.
Okay.
There is a dichotomy here because fear is something good that you should take advantage of.
So it's kind of good to be afraid because it keeps you on edge.
It keeps you from slacking.
It keeps you preparing as much as you possibly can and all that stuff is good.
But at the same time, yes, if you go too far to the other end of the spectrum, fear gets a hold of you.
You can't overcome it.
So you freeze or you cower or you run away and none of those are good reactions.
So what I obviously failed to communicate well in the book,
Dispony goes freedom field manual is the dichotomy between these spectrum,
The spectrum of fear that you can have.
So if you have no fear whatsoever, no fear.
Well, guess what?
You get cocky, you can get arrogant.
If you have too much fear, you can't even get out of the gate.
You just freeze, you hesitate.
So like all dichotomies, you got to balance those two.
And the way you balance those two is to try and do things that make you feel fear.
So that way you get used to it, you can overcome it, you can deal with it, you can utilize it.
If you have a fighter, you have to see fighters that I'll come afraid every time I get in the ring.
Pretty much everybody.
Yeah, pretty much everybody.
I'm afraid because you're afraid you're going to get knocked out, you're afraid this, you're afraid that.
Frating and losing front of all my family and friends and all that.
So everyone's afraid.
So what does that fear do?
It drives you to train harder.
Drives you to prepare, drives you to keep your hands up and your chin down.
When you're in the key to the end of the world, you're going to have to keep your hands up and your chin down.
When you're in the cage.
Right.
So yeah, there's a healthy level of fear.
It can also get the best of you.
So keep it balanced.
Yeah, we talked about this and I think Sam Harris talked about it first.
First I heard it made a point not to go too deep into it.
But where, you know, like this, okay, fear, how do you overcome fear, step go.
Right.
It's essentially like take action, be brave in the face of fear.
But if there's no fear, it's kind of like, you're not really being brave.
You're not, you know, kind of think.
Well, that's true, too.
Yeah.
So consider that notion.
Right.
So you say, yeah, I want you to be afraid of failure.
Oh, yeah, be afraid of failure.
But you still got a step.
You still got to go.
You still got to be brave, you know, kind of thing.
So they do actually kind of compliment each other really.
Unless you think like, oh, yeah, overcome fear, meaning like,
I'm not scared of it anymore.
It's literally not figured it's always fear.
It's more, it's less about the fear being, you know, reduced to zero.
It's more about being brave, training yourself to be brave.
In brace the fear.
Yeah.
And the end.
So to continue with that thought, in order to embrace the fear, what do you do?
You step.
Do you go into it.
So there you go.
There's your answer.
Cool.
That's a question.
I was wondering when does standing up for the right thing take precedence
over avoiding conflict?
This is something that leaders have to deal with all the time.
So clearly out of the gate, things that are immoral, unethical, or illegal,
if you participate, you're guilty.
That's the way it is.
Now things that are a matter of opinion, that's where you might have to play.
The long game, like, maybe you don't want to do something a certain way.
And if you, but if you think, oh, well,
I think the jiu-jitsu class warm-ups should be doing these exercises.
And echo things that should be those exercises.
So echo these things we should do it this way.
No, we should do it this way.
You dig in.
I dig in.
Now we, we, end up saying, well, I'm not going to teach the class.
You know, you end up in these situations.
Well, what's the big deal?
What's, you know, what, what I rather do?
I'd rather play the long game.
I'd rather say, hey man, can you explain why you do those exercises?
Oh, here's another exercise cool that I learned.
Isn't this good for this technique?
Oh, you know how you like when I do this move?
This actually helps me do it even though it's just a warm-up move.
Oh, that's cool.
We build a little relationship.
You get to understand me.
I get to understand you.
Boom.
You also need to say, hey, I'm going to incorporate that into our warm-ups.
So we're going to warm up here, boom.
There you go.
Now I understand that that's the right thing, right?
Because in my mind, I'm thinking, hey,
if these students need to know this escape,
it's the right thing to do.
So I do that.
So you have to weigh it out.
Yeah.
What am I doing to my relationship in this situation?
If I go along with this, like if you ask me to do nine things that are pretty
menial and you're my boss and I say, yep, cool, got it boss and no problem.
And you ask me to do something else.
It's me.
Yep, cool, got it boss and no problem.
Then you ask me to do something else.
Me, cool, got it boss and no problem.
Then you ask me to do something that's downright stupid and dangerous.
And I go, hey, boss, I need to talk about this.
I'm not sure.
Can you explain to me why we're doing it this way?
Because there's a possibility someone can really get hurt.
You go, oh, well, you've done it.
In your mind, you're thinking you've done these ten things for me.
You've done nine things for me.
You've done seven things for me.
You did them well.
You didn't question me.
Now listen, you have a question.
You must have a legitimate question.
That's what we're hoping for.
That's why we're trying to build relationships.
Now, all that being said, yes, we're playing along it.
There are times.
And this is a really sketchy area to enter into.
There are times where something that is happening is immoral, unethical,
or illegal, and you might actually have to kind of go along with it.
I tried to think of a good example of that.
And I thought of one, Oscar Schindler from Schindler's List.
What did this guy do?
Right?
This guy was a Nazi.
He was a Nazi.
They were exterminating Jews.
And instead of him standing up and saying,
this is wrong to exterminate Jews, I protest.
How long would he have lived if he had done that?
Thirty seconds.
Right?
Oh, you don't think Jews should die cool.
We're killing you.
That was that.
How many people did he save?
Zero.
He would negate if one.
What did he do?
He played the game.
He befriended the Nazi leadership.
He bought them gifts.
He bribed them.
He built relationships with them.
He ended up being able to move his factory and all this other stuff
to save a bunch of Jewish people.
And he even though he knew,
like he would see them executing people.
He would see them executing Jews.
And he knew it was wrong.
He thought it was wrong.
He felt it was wrong.
And if he would have stood up and said,
hey, what you're doing is wrong,
then he wouldn't have been able to save anyone.
He would have been killed himself.
So even in that situation,
it's not a guarantee that you need to stand up to do the ethical thing.
Because perhaps there's a chance you can do the more ethical thing
by playing the game building relationships.
Who knows?
Maybe if that war went on.
Maybe he would have said, oh, you know what?
Maybe he would have risen to a position where he,
you know, maybe if the Germans would have won.
And he could have said, hey, you know what?
The Jewish people are making good workers here.
I'm going to continue to use them or whatever.
You know, maybe he built up a whole new, you never know.
But when you get rid of your influence,
when you lose your influence,
because you stand up, it might not be the best move.
And the thing that you have to wait for this,
you have to wait with this is you are participating.
And actually, you know, they say Oscar Schindler felt completely guilty
because he did participate and he was a part of what was happening.
He did his best to stop as much as he could,
but he wish he would have stopped more.
And, you know, at some point, maybe you see a little six year old girl
getting shot and you think, you know what?
I should screw it.
I should stand in front of that bullet and take that bullet
for that little girl.
You know, that's the kind of guilt that he felt.
So there are times where you really have to wait
this out.
And also, I'll tell you, I mean, even in things that aren't this big,
ethical dilemma, head on conflict is generally not the best way
to solve problems.
Most of the time, it's much smarter to maneuver.
It's much smarter to flank, and it's much smarter to come from another angle.
And it's much smarter to build allegiance and alliance with people.
So you can have influence over.
So you can move them in the right direction.
Yeah, so almost like, actually straight up,
where doing the right thing and avoiding conflict is kind of like,
they're not that opposite, you know,
where doing the avoiding, you should, and I'm totally just
interpreting this, trying to do it.
Avoiding conflict, you should always be essentially trying to avoid conflict
as far as, maybe not all the time.
Yeah, but generally speaking, we do a better job.
Then the outcome is better when we avoid conflict.
Now, of course, anyone listening to this,
oh, you take that to extreme.
This is someone that never stands up for anything.
Yeah, and that's bad.
And it's also bad from a leadership perspective.
If your team is looking at you and they think,
Jockel never sticks up for us.
He never gives the boss any pushback.
So we're just at the whim of this tyrannical boss,
and Jockel is no buffer to it.
That's what they see.
So you can't just be a pushover, but at the same time,
if you go to your troops and you say,
hey, listen, guys, here's what's going on.
The boss has got a lot of ideas right now.
Some of them are good, some of them not so good.
But guess what?
What I'm doing right now, and the reason that we're pushing hard to carry out
what he's trying to get us to do is to the best of our ability.
The reason we're doing that is because I'm actually trying to build some trust
with him so that he will listen to me.
Right now, he's not really listening to me.
He knows I don't have him with much experience,
but I'm trying to build relationships so he can listen to me so we can actually do this
and what I think is going to be a smarter way.
Can you guys help me build this relationship by kicking ass for the next three projects
that we've got?
So I can build up some cloud and come back to him and get the tools or the people
whatever it is that we need.
Yeah, you always have this real finesse sort of way of saying stuff like you.
It's what I guess you were saying and I think you were wrong actually.
You were saying that standing up and doing the right thing is the same thing as avoiding conflict.
No, I didn't mean it like that.
I meant that they're not necessarily always opposite.
They're not doing the right thing in avoiding conflict.
There's just some issue wash you kind of room in the wiggle room,
and when I say avoiding you should always be quote unquote avoiding conflict.
I meant, of course, not always, but I meant more.
Even if I'm going to confront someone or something about something that's wrong,
I still should be, while I do that, I should be avoiding conflict.
For sure, doing it in a finesse sort of way to actually just keep everything rolling
forward, maybe just nudging in a different direction.
But I actually know that I'm sort of reading this again.
I understand what he's asking.
It's like, is there a time where it's like,
hey, there's gonna be conflict?
Is there a time where it's worth the conflict?
And where is that point?
You know, at the point that I always give is,
if you're telling me, hey, Jocco, go do the mission this way
and I'm like, you know what, I'm not doing it.
And you go, okay, find your fire.
And now, do you put someone some yes man in my place
and then that yes man gets everyone killed
because it was a stupid plan.
Did I really help?
Or should I have said, hey, boss, I'm really gonna recommend
we do it in a different way here, some different options.
And then finally you say no, Jocco, you do it my way
and guess what, even then I can go on mitigate and the field.
Even then I can say, you know what?
And the classic example that is in band brothers,
when Dick Winners of awesome leader,
they send a recon mission across the river,
one night, someone dies, they come back,
the war's over, it's all but over.
And the next night they want to do another reconnaissance mission.
And Dick Winners is like, sir, I'm not sure that's a great idea.
He's like, do it.
He goes, okay, Roger that.
The guys go down, they drink a couple bottles of wine
in the bottom of the, they don't do the mission.
He mitigated the risk.
If you would have stood up and, you know,
that's a great example of where he avoided conflict.
He stayed in the game.
He wasn't, he said yes, yes sir, got it, we got it.
And then he did disobeyed.
Sure, he put his, he put his rank at risk
and probably could have gotten in some trouble
but he knew his the right thing to do.
Yeah, that was like the best sort of way to do him.
And again, you, you're always thinking of like the long game.
versus the short game, you know, where it's like,
and we can keep that perspective, these things become a little bit more clear,
you know, they always do.
Yes, sir.
Next question, Jockel, I recently interviewed for a team,
lead job, but wasn't selected because I don't have leadership experience.
How can I lead what I'm not in charge?
Well, you're in charge of something.
You're certainly in charge of something.
You're in charge of some piece of gear.
You're in charge of some task.
You're in charge of maybe a couple people here or there,
but even if you're not, you're in charge of something.
So whatever you're in charge of, take charge of it.
Take charge of whatever your task is you take charge of it.
You own it, you do it to perfection.
Then once you've got that completely dialed,
then you know what, you reach out and you see who else you can help.
You help with other tasks.
You look for work. If you look for work, you're going to find it.
You're going to find it.
You're going to start taking things from other people.
Now what you have to be careful of is that you don't step on toes, right?
Because just about everyone, think about this.
Just about everyone is offended by someone that wants to be in charge.
Right.
Hey, let me take charge of this here.
Is that right there makes people cringe?
What to take lead on this?
Let me just, you know what?
Hey, listen up, guys.
Right.
If you're that guy, then everyone goes, hmm.
Now there's a key point.
This is beautiful.
So let's say we're in a cartoon.
There's something going on.
In a mid grade position.
And I realize like, I want to be lead, right?
Now if I just go in and go, hey, guys, let me run this next mission.
People are like, do you know what are you talking about?
You don't know anything.
OK.
And they're kind of dug in against me, by the way, at that point.
If I give it a knife, I let things escalate a little bit.
What I would usually do is I would let things escalate to a point to where when I took
charge, people were waiting for it and they were happy that I took charge.
Then even though I was, even though I was tasked in a manner, like if you're tasked
in a commander, OK, so I got late and stone are working for me.
I'm tasked in a commander, we're out on an operation.
Something starts going wrong.
Right.
If I'm doing a building clearance with his platoon, something starts going wrong.
I'd jump down there and say, all right, guys, push over that way, start clearing that hallway.
How does Lay feel?
Yeah, kind of.
Yeah.
Fees.
He feels like I jumped down and micromanage his platoon and why are you doing this?
Everything was going fine.
So I don't want to do that.
I want, first of all, I want him to work things out, of course.
So let's say, same things happening.
Things are going a little bit bad.
There's starting to be a little bit of confusion.
There's starting to be escalated voices. There's starting to people be, you know, hey, wait, wait,
no, don't go there.
You can hear it.
It's really obvious when things are going wrong.
I might let that escalate a little bit.
Let it get to a point where the life knows, she doesn't have control this anymore.
Now like I'm going to go, hey, everyone lock it up.
You four hold on that hallway.
You two start clearing that back room.
Everyone else gets to the rooftop and all security.
You know what everyone thinks?
Including life?
They go, thank God that just happened.
Right.
Now, and that can happen from anywhere in the chain of command.
I'm happening, I happen to be given an example when I was the task commander, but I would
do the same thing when I was an E5, which is, oh, things are going a little bit sideways.
No one wants to hear the guy that as soon as they opportunity.
As soon as there's any void of leadership, you're just jumping in there like, okay, guys,
Captain America, to the rescue, right?
You don't want to do that.
You want to let that.
I'll tell you what happens.
If there's a little tiny void that you try and jump into, guess what you're going to do.
You're going to bump into everyone else that's in that void.
You have to meet an actual void of leadership.
Once that actual void of leadership opens up, and it's big enough, you jump in there.
Because you've detached, because you are detached, because you're watching it happen,
you jump in there and you have so much confidence in what you're saying.
You have so much understanding of the situation.
You look like a genius and everyone's happy that you just did that.
And by the way, as soon as that problem gets solved, you step back out, the leadership
void is closed up by someone else and you're good to go.
And next time, people will not be surprised at all when something goes wrong and you're
stepping and you've solved the problem.
So that's what you should do.
You, yes, you want to be in charge, yes, you should look for work, but you can't step on
toes.
Don't jump in every time, you get like Captain America.
I'm going to save the day.
No, you're not.
Let there be a real problem, assess it from the outside.
And like I said, you got to be careful about being Captain America.
You got to be careful about being on.
I'm going to, I'm ready to stand up every moment.
And that's a problem.
You know, it's a problem when someone's goal is going to sound weird.
When someone's goal is to be a leader, like my goal is to be a leader.
Like if that's what they're thinking, that's going to offend people.
It's going to offend people.
Because, and I'll say why it offends people to rightfully so.
You know why it offends people?
Because what is it about?
It's about me.
I want to be a leader.
I mean me want to lead.
That's what it's about.
And everyone recognize that.
If what you really want to do is you want the team to win.
And you realize that sometimes you're going to be in a supporting role and sometimes there
might be in a situation where you need to lead almost hesitantly, you know what?
Leadership needs to happen.
I'll go make it happen because the team needs it to win.
I'm here for the team.
So don't be the person about yourself.
We don't like that person.
I don't even like that person.
As much as I love people that want to step up and lead, I don't want that person.
That's like looking for themselves.
Sometimes you've got to be following.
I want someone that's like, hey, oh cool.
I got your back.
Don't worry about.
I'm over here.
I'm over here part of the train.
I'm over here clearing rooms.
Oh wait a second, there's a leadership void.
And now there's an actual problem going on.
Oh, and then that person suddenly steps up and solves the problem.
Then goes right back down to their level.
Awesome.
That's the person you want.
That's person you want to be.
Yeah, you know how like now they're here.
A lot nowadays where they're add value.
You just want to add value.
So what's the sense you're what you're doing?
Even now that leads to situation.
It's like boom, I'm going to add value.
So one, okay, if you're going to start with my own role.
You know, that's where I'm going to add the most value in my own role.
But if there's little voids in whatever capacity that needs some value added, I'm going
to add that value.
But you can't just be piling on the value where it's not needed.
No, don't don't put additional value into non-value needing areas exactly.
That's problematic too much value.
It's true.
All right, next question.
Hi, Jocco.
When you're trying to take ownership of a mistake made by a fellow team member, what
do you do if the team leader asks for a step by step step by step breakdown of events?
I've said it was arm mistake and not to end not made excuses.
But a step by step breakdown would expose the fact that he alone was responsible for
that error.
Interesting.
Do you think that's interesting?
It is, wait, so he's saying, okay, it's arm mistake.
I don't want to individualize this guy or make him stand out of whatever.
It's arm mistake and we're going to fix it kind of thing.
And he's like, no, I want the step by step.
The step step step step step is going to reveal the so-lo.
Actually, bills fall.
And now what I tried so hard to take ownership.
Here's the fault.
It was actually build that was all jacked up.
It's actually not my fault.
It's the truth, right?
You get that, right?
Yeah, because check it out.
Who's responsible?
When you're taking ownership of something, when you're taking extreme ownership of something,
whose fault is it?
Your mind?
Yeah, sure.
Was that include when someone else on your team makes a mistake?
Yes.
But how can that be?
Good, it's here.
So let me ask you these questions.
Here's what I'd be thinking.
The teammate was in error.
Why?
Why did the teammate make a mistake?
Why didn't the teammate have backup?
Why didn't the rest of the members of the team?
Why didn't I actually go through with him and make sure that he knew how to do that procedure
properly?
He's part of my team.
We're responsible for this taking place.
I knew he was a little bit shaky and I didn't do anything to fix it.
That's why it's our fault.
It's not our fault because we say, oh, it's our fault, but it's really bill.
That's not what we're talking about.
The point is, the point is to actually own it.
So with my coworker fails, I'm literally saying to myself, what mistake did I make that
my coworker drop the ball?
What mistake did I make?
My coworker dropped the ball.
Did I not show it to him?
Did I not ask him if you knew how to do it?
Did I not ask him if he needed some help?
Did I not confirm that he knew the procedures correctly?
All those things are my fault.
Did I not do a good job of identifying that bill as a little bit slow on the uptake?
And therefore he needed a little extra preparation for this.
And now think about this.
What can I do?
Once I make this mistake, we're going to do the fix.
I'm going to think about this from a leadership perspective.
You go down and you say, hey, you guys messed up this thing.
Why did it happen?
Now think about the team wherever it goes.
Well, it's our fault.
Mostly bill.
Right?
Sure.
And I'll tell you, when I look at a pollotoon and bill made a mistake, I don't look at bill.
A good leader doesn't just look at bill.
A good leadership looks at everyone on the team, especially certainly the leadership.
But I think this guy's talking about from a peer, but it doesn't matter.
From a peer perspective, if there's a mistake that happens, we are truly response
possible.
And then from a leadership perspective, when I go down to the team and I say, hey, guys,
what happened?
And they say, well, it was our fault.
But this is what bill did.
I go, okay, so you just drop in nine months bill.
I'm not going to say that.
But I'm like, I think it's not okay.
So it's all bill's fault.
Cool.
I'll tell you what.
Whereas if you say, hey, listen, bosses is what happened.
Here's the procedures we went.
I don't think we did a good job of briefing bill because here's what bill did.
He did step three instead of step four.
I fault we went through twice, but why should have gone through it a couple more times
and confirmed he knew it was going on?
It's not going to happen again.
We got this.
Which guy you want to work for?
Which guy do you want?
Which team do you want?
You want the team where people are taking ownership of the problem, not blaming Bill.
Ownership is not just saying we own it.
Ownership is actually owning it.
And that's what makes it so powerful.
If you actually own it, then you actually look at Bill beforehand and you go look in our
team.
Do we have any weaknesses?
Yeah, we do.
Bill doesn't bill can't get this part of the procedure done right.
Here's what we're going to do.
We're going to put Bill into this other position.
That's an easier part of the procedure.
We're going to make sure he knows how to do that.
Meanwhile, we're taking Mike and Mike is going to go down here and he nails this procedure
and he's going to spend, by the way, in extra 15 minutes a day during lunch, he's going
to get Bill's trained up so Bill can eventually think.
That's the kind of thing you do on a team.
Yeah.
You made it pretty clear with just, which is kind of, because it's not that easy to understand
or it wasn't for me anyway.
I mean, it was put it this way.
It was very valuable when I didn't understand this about extreme ownership.
I said this before too, by the way.
So there's essentially two parts of it that make it extreme ownership.
Actually, there's three because there's the dichotomy, but aside from the dichotomy, this
is what it is.
You take responsibility and then you say what you're going to do to fix the problem.
And then actually there's a third part, which is you implement the solution.
Yes, yes, yes.
You identify it.
You own the problem.
You identify a solution for the problem and then you implement the solution.
Yes.
That's what you do.
Yeah.
So a lot of times, especially in the beginning, like I would just as far as me just kind
of casually trying to understand it, I would focus so much on taking responsibility.
You know, it was my fault.
You know, kind of thing.
It's like, well, the taking responsibility is arguably more important than saying that
it's your fault kind of thing.
It's essentially your taking responsibility of the solution as well.
If not, in a way, in a lot of practical cases, you don't even have to identify who's
fault it is if you take responsibility of the solution.
If I'm okay here.
So if there's a full-ball team, just like the epitome of team, not the epitome, but
want a good example of teamwork.
Never mind the sales teams or whatever, but we're going to go with it.
Well, football is pretty, it'll be more simple because it's so let's say, okay, we've
got to pass or whatever and boom, the place, the place starts and a guy gets through the
front line.
Let's say the guard missed a block.
Obviously, right?
He missed it.
Maybe he looked one way and he was supposed to look this way.
He was supposed to not pull and he tried to pull or something.
Maybe he just made a mistake.
He just made a mistake.
He's not incompetent.
Who's fault is it?
Okay.
But if the quarterback's going to take extreme ownership, he's going to be like, hey,
no part of the, hey, this happened.
You know, next time we were, I'm going to remind him of him.
This play that play, you know, this red 46, don't curve twist whatever.
Like you don't pull and he probably probably be like, I'm not, I know.
I know, don't go to school them.
Just feel like he, you don't go, hey, no problem.
But we're just not going to do that anymore.
And then next time I call that play, I'm be like, you're good, right?
I'm going to check with him.
I didn't check with him.
He won't make them a mistake.
I'm going to check with him.
And kind of like you, when we were now, we're driving, that he didn't mean, you know?
It's kind of one of those things.
The quarterback took responsibility for solving the problem.
More so than he was like, okay, looks, that was my fault.
They're making a big deal out of it being his fault.
Yeah.
You know, in his head, it is, you know, it's like, okay, this is my fault.
I should, you know, I should make sure things are clear kind of thing.
Like the weather, too.
You know, your weather is bad.
Yeah.
Well, what bothers me the most about this question is, I feel like I feel like I feel
like I don't do a good job of explaining this.
Because what bothers me out is someone who ever wrote this question.
And it's a good question.
I get the question.
I get scared that the person that's listening to the question goes, no, John, what
doesn't quite get it.
He doesn't quite get the fact that there was this one guy who was part of the team, who
made this mistake.
And no one, you know, we just, we can't hold his hand every time.
Like, that's, it's not my fault.
Not our teams fault when Bill drop completely drops the ball.
That's not my fault.
It's not anyone on the team's fault.
And my point is, is exactly what you are saying, Echo.
Yes, it is.
And if you look at it when Bill makes the mistake himself, he's alone in a room.
And he's supposed to, you know, he's supposed to put part A on top of part B and bolt them
together.
His part of the job.
He's alone in a room doing that.
And he doesn't do it.
Right?
That's 100% his fault.
The answer is no, actually, who's in charge of training him?
Who's in charge of checking who, who, not even in charge of who's responsible.
We are a team.
That means we work together.
That means we confirm that we know how to do our individual parts of the job.
That means we check and say, hey, Bill, are you good?
Hey, Bill, let me check your first three that you do to make sure you understand what's
happening.
We do this together as a team.
And it makes me feel like a failure that people have a hard time understanding this.
And I know it can be a stretch.
It can be a stretch.
And, you know, I give all those examples.
Hey, the machine gun or shoots in the wrong direction.
Who's fault is that?
It's not the machine.
The machine gun or literally pointed the machine gun in the wrong direction, pulled
the trigger and shot in the wrong direction.
Who's fault is it?
It's the squad leaders.
It's the fire team leaders.
It's the platoon leaders.
Because they didn't make sure that he understood his field of fire.
Make sure he understood how to operate his weapon.
And by the way, there's a chance that the reason that Bill screwed this up and Bill is
incapable of putting these parts together correctly.
And if that is the situation, guess what?
It is a responsibility of the team to either get him trained up to where he can do it or
to tell the leadership that this guy cannot be incapable of doing the job.
And therefore, he needs to not be here.
That's what ownership is.
That's what extreme ownership is.
I think I know what it is.
What makes it confusing or sometimes kind of slippery to grasp.
Because it depends on who you ask.
So a lot of times, the thing is when it's the machine gun is fault, the thing is if I'm
not even a human being, I'm just a disembodied brain.
Okay, it's the machine gun is fault and the leader is fault and it's everyone's fault.
If I'm dead, but if you ask the individual person, because you ask a machine gun,
hey, okay, jockey, you're the machine gun, you shot in the wrong direction and I ask you
who's fault is that?
What are you going to say?
My leader's fault?
Well, it's your fault.
Well, let me tell you right now, there are plenty of people and definitely plenty of
machine gunners that when they shoot that weapon in the wrong direction, no, what they
say, I didn't get a clear brief on what the field of firework.
No one, I didn't see the markers for what the range limits were.
I didn't know where the other blue forces were.
No one told me.
So they're looking at it like it actually isn't their fault.
Now you get some good machine and actually guess what?
When you have a guy, that's a machine gunner that says, well, what was my fault?
It was my leader's fault.
You know what the leader says?
What?
The leader's bad leader.
The leader in this team.
The leader in this team, you know what he says?
No, it was the machine gunner's fault.
That's right.
And now, guess who's fault it was?
It was no one's fault.
The machine gunner think is the boss's fault.
The boss thinks it was the machine gunner's fault.
Now who's going to fix the problem?
The answer is no one.
When you get a good team, the machine gunner goes to my fault.
I should have paid their attention.
The leader says my fault.
And now you have everyone taking ownership of the problems.
Yes.
That's the way it's supposed to be.
But that's my point.
And that's why it makes it so hard.
Never mind your disembodied brain.
That's making decisions over here.
I'm trying to make a point though.
I'm saying this is what it's hard for people to understand.
That's why sometimes.
I'm with them.
I'm like, there it's kind of like, it's kind of like, sure.
I'm tricking to shoot ownership, you know, the typical.
I'm taking ownership.
But yeah, I don't have to end the day or we all know it's built for.
But the reason that it is so hard because if I ask, okay, we have three guys.
One of those guys is the machine gunner.
The other guys are leading the other guys just another team member.
He's, you know, he's the sniper or something.
If I say, hey, this machine gunner shot in the wrong direction.
Individual meetings, they all take extreme ownership, all of them are down.
They're in the game.
The all of them.
I ask you machine gunner.
Who's fault is that?
What's he going to say?
Well, okay, next guy who's faulted.
Fire's you leader.
My fault.
I shouldn't.
And the, yeah.
Squad leader, my fault.
I should have told them.
Right.
Yeah.
So the read now go back to the disembodied brain.
It's kind of like, way, way, way.
So it's like, he did it.
It's hard to grasp like that.
One guy, it is his fault.
The thing is not just his fault.
Apparently, because everyone said it's their fault.
So he was obviously his fault.
But wait, it's everyone's fault kind of thing.
So when you're the guy and you're saying, okay, his fault, it that little thing creeps
in your brain.
That's like, yeah, wait, it is his fault.
Yeah.
You know, and you're wrong.
And you're wrong.
And I need to do a better job of explaining to people because I see questions
like this on a fairly regular basis, which is, but hey, really.
You know, there's a guy, I get ownership, but really.
Yeah.
That's what I mean.
It's the butt, really, that you need to check yourself on.
Yeah.
Because the reality is you're responsible.
You.
Wait, but if I'm responsible, what about the machine?
He just said he's responsible for the machine gunner.
You're responsible.
I know, but the machine gunner said he's responsible.
Let's see what I'm saying now.
I think that's the feeling that that you let that creep in.
Yeah.
And that's going to be a problem.
You've seen office space.
Yeah.
So really, when you think about, okay, what's the big thing?
I don't think he has the movie remembers.
Yeah, you do.
Okay, let me remind you, okay.
So in the beginning, they were like, hey, Peter, we're putting cover sheets on the TPS reports
from now on.
We've been doing that.
You forgot to do that.
Right?
So first lumber comes his boss.
First lumber comes his like, yeah, you know, saying, hey, let me read.
He didn't do it in a thick way.
I know I ain't for sure, but he said, hey, this is basically a reminder.
Did you get that memo?
We're putting cover sheets on the TPS reports.
He said, yeah, I just forgot.
It was one time thing, no problem.
He's like cool, all that, you know, so if you just do that, do that, that'd be cool.
And he's like, cool, no problem.
He's all, I'll even give you another copy of that memo.
He almost like over did it.
Not almost he did over do it.
So he left.
And then the other boss boom, who was like one level down, he came, same deal.
Hey, we're putting, did you get that memo?
TPS reports, cover sheets now, probably.
He's like, I got the memo.
I forgot one time thing.
He's like, yeah, I'm just all those bosses were doing, making sure the problem got solved.
Right, doing everything in their power.
Even his other, his friends were like, hey, what's up?
I heard you guys, you're having problems with your TPS.
So they were just taking extreme ownership, taking ownership of the problem, trying to solve
it.
But we give them crap about it.
Who do we give a movie?
You know, movie somewhere?
Yeah, yeah, because they're trying to make it funny, dude.
Yeah, I know.
But that's kind of ironic.
It's ironic.
But yeah, I know, but it's ironic, right?
It is.
You know.
So I'm not even mad at Lumberg for that.
Let's say in the next question.
Hi, Jockel.
Question for you. I know you're very busy guy.
How do you find time to read so many books?
I have many that I want to read, but I've trouble having enough time.
Any advice on how to set aside time to do so?
Yeah, sure.
All right, land on me.
Make time.
What are you doing all day?
The clock's sick.
Are you watching TV?
Are you surfing the internet?
Are you watching YouTube videos?
That's my question.
What are you doing before you go to sleep at night?
Are you looking at Twitter?
Are you looking at Instagram posts, Instagram videos?
Tell me they're not like an addiction.
You get the Instagram video.
One of them is funny, they're 38 seconds long.
They're one minute long.
Get to see people hurt themselves, get to see people do dumb things.
Make you feel good about yourself.
I didn't do that dumb thing.
Someone else did.
I can laugh at them.
How long you're going to look at those videos for when you could be reading.
So there you go.
Stop wasting a bunch of time.
And then what about audio books?
What are you doing when you're mowing the lawn?
What are you doing when you're trimming the hedges?
What are you doing when you're pulling weeds?
What are you doing when you're cleaning the dishes?
Get some audio books.
What are you doing first thing in the morning?
What are you doing?
Are you waking up, checking your email, sitting around, waiting, wasting a bunch of time?
Are you getting up early enough that you could just get up and get out of bed?
Go and read for 30 minutes.
That's what you have to do.
You have to make time.
There's plenty of time to read.
You probably don't want to read as badly as you think.
If you wanted to read that bad, you'd make time.
You make time to breathe somehow.
If you can make time to breathe, you can make time to read.
Let's say it's the best.
Yeah, it would be a better one.
Because yeah, eat, I think.
Because read, you can read while you're doing other things sometimes.
Especially with the others.
Just kind of as a, so I'm reading, I'm always have to be reading a book to read a book
for the podcast, right?
I had only read the first maybe 10 books that we read that we did in the podcast.
We've done a hundred or something now.
Probably more than that.
I don't read like 10 of them.
Maybe it may be a few more.
But I'd read them so long ago.
Maybe I'd read 30.
But I'd read some of them so long ago that just,
I had to reread them.
And so then you said to yourself, okay.
So when, when you don't when I read all the time,
I read going about reading, wake up, reading.
Going in an airplane.
People, what do people do in an airplane?
See, watch a movie, I know you sleep.
They do all this stuff.
I sleep sometimes in an airplane.
But if you're not sleeping, you get us a guess on what I'm doing.
Reading, forever, forever, forever.
I can't test it out.
Yeah.
What do you think is the, like, the biggest ones that people are,
you know, that you know, the biggest activities that they could,
yeah, they could just stop.
And for me, I think the biggest time sucks are YouTube.
I think Instagram.
Yeah.
I think those two are really,
what's the word stimulating to the brain?
Yeah.
And you actually get this weird, like, well, I actually,
like, I'm going to learn a little something from this right here.
I'm going to take something away from this.
I'm going to veg out.
I'm going to escape from my world right now.
It's like a scapeysm, right?
Yeah.
And they, they actually have algorithms that are,
that know what you will click on.
They actually know that about you.
They mapped your little brain.
And know that if they put up a video that has,
if they put up a thumbnail of a video,
and it's got a heavy machine gun in it,
they know they got a good chance I'm going to click on it.
Right?
And then they give it a catch phrase title, right?
No.
They give it a catch phrase title.
I just get's massacre.
I got to watch that.
Got to do it.
Yeah.
Oh, click.
Oh.
50 cow versus Taliban.
Oh, cool.
Black.
Yeah.
And actually, no words you're going to click on.
And that's, that's, so, and what do you get out of it?
You watch it for 20 minutes.
Or game.
Yeah.
You get nothing out of it.
You get a book.
You read.
You learn.
You write something.
That's what you do.
Yeah.
And actually, the YouTube thing is,
it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's not just YouTube,
but who's trying to get you to watch the video.
It's the video makers themselves.
So YouTube has the algorithm.
Oh, they got it all kind of sorted out there.
And now the video makers, they make titles like 50 cow versus XYZ and awful bunch of things too.
And guess what?
50 cow versus you can fill in the blank.
You're probably going to watch that video.
Doesn't matter.
Don't matter.
Motivation speech ever.
Yes.
They get with the sentence.
Oh, yeah.
So, and so destroys whatever destroys reporter in interview.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Right.
So once you really owned.
Yeah.
So basically, right when you log onto YouTube, once YouTube pops up on your screen, bro, everyone on that screen is all sucking your attention.
Literally, that's their job sucking your attention.
So, yeah, man, that's a big one.
Right, Instagram.
So here's the, here's one that really hit me really hard.
The Graham.
And I like Instagram.
It's like, good.
But if you're like trying to read, you know, if you want to read more, whatever,
consider like, even like, let's say we start recording this for a second, we're going to look at the boss of our phones.
We're going to maybe check in email, maybe we got to text or whatever.
And the probability of Instagram coming up on there.
We're going to, you know, open it, but the probability of us opening Instagram is pretty significant.
It's pretty high.
And you know, scroll through there, whatever.
Even if you scroll for two, three minutes, right?
You scroll through there.
Maybe what you looked at, I don't know, 15, 20 people's posts.
Read what they had to say.
But if you have a, what do you, what do you, what do you call like, kindle or something?
But you do that same thing.
It's like kind of, like, if you're saying you could read.
Yeah, read instead.
So if you had a camera like once you said like, imagine your video, video tape, like, what if you were being video tape all day?
And all it was calculate every time you opened up Instagram or Facebook or Twitter and or YouTube all those particular.
Every time you open up, but instead, you had that scenario in one average day.
Then you take all that time and replace it with you opened your Kindle to read or boss out of book.
You know, you're bringing books or whatever with you.
And that's how to, instead of doing that, you did the book.
Right, and how much reading you do, right, you'd read so much.
A lot of reading.
Yeah.
So it's like, yeah, those are the time sucks, man.
You're phone.
It's so available, you know, but right, you can read on your phone too.
That's a big one.
TV2.
You watched TV?
Not really.
But I watched one show now. And actually two, Hawaii 5.0 and that's it.
Sometimes Shark Tank.
That's it, man.
100% swear.
What is it?
How often is a Hawaii 5.0 on?
One to week.
And it goes in season.
So you got it.
How long is this season?
I don't know.
13 episodes, I guess.
But nonetheless.
I have watched one TV show recently.
What?
It's called billions.
No, well.
You know.
There's a little scenario unfolding on billions.
So.
All right.
Well, you know, actually, yeah, actually, yeah.
And keep in mind, it's not like I've never seen any other show ever.
And never will.
It's not that.
Yeah.
I'm just saying, you know how people they like take a watch.
I know.
And actually, I will separate the fact that nowadays, you can watch TV in a different way.
Right.
It's not like at eight o'clock on a Thursday night.
You got to sit there and watch.
It's not like a 30 minute show with the 30 minutes worth of commercials in it.
Yeah.
Right.
No, you can, you're, you're on a flight somewhere.
You've read, you've got to take it easy on your eyes a little bit.
If you start reading too much, you've read for a long time.
Okay, you're going to stare out the window for a little while.
Listen to this part of a podcast or something.
Then you're like, okay, my brain is like barely functioning.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm going to watch an episode of billions.
Yeah.
Well, the ballers.
Everything ballers.
I don't know the different, well, I do know the different.
Yeah.
I just don't know the different.
It's like, you know, like, you know, like, people have a routine, like,
tenet, you know, every night for 30 minutes, they watch TV with their kids or whatever.
It's like that doesn't really happen anymore.
Yeah.
Next question.
You really.
Sad how much time you can waste these days with the distractions and the people trying to get that time from you.
Yeah.
You're, discipline like when you, when you first start saying discipline.
Oh, when I first started hearing it from you, that was like one of the things that popped into my head, like, as being really obvious.
Like if you are discipline with your time, you will have a lot of free time, like a lot, a lot of free time.
Way more than you would think anyway, because, you know, even when I'm like real busy, you know,
if I can accurately remember my day, I can remember like just like five minutes here,
15 minutes there, like that I did something that was a waste of time.
And if you add up all those little minutes, you have probably hours.
Probably hours for to do whatever.
Yeah.
Do something progressive, you know, progressive, progressive, progressive life.
Value valuable, all those things.
Check.
Next question.
Would your extreme ownership philosophy have changed or lost confidence if you had been relieved of command when taking ownership of friendly fire incident?
You described being your first book.
The book, extreme ownership, by the way.
Yes.
Just to be perfectly clear about this, I wasn't taking ownership of the situation,
so that I could keep my job.
It wasn't a political maneuver to set myself up to look good.
I was taking ownership of the situation because I was the leader of the situation that took place.
I was the guy responsible for what was happening.
I was taking ownership because that was the correct thing.
The correct thing is something bad and happened and I was in charge of it.
And yes, I could have been fired.
And if I would have been fired, I would have accepted it and I wouldn't have done anything different.
So again, this is sort of similar to a couple of questions ago.
That extreme ownership is not about avoiding trouble.
It's not about avoiding trouble.
You don't say, well, I own it and then you don't get trouble.
You actually could get fired.
And that's why that idea of preemptive ownership.
I talked about that at one of the monsters.
If in the back of your mind, if in the back of my mind, I think, you know what?
If the makes a mistake, I can just blame it on them.
I'll be good.
Well, now I'm not really that worried about their plan because I got that little out if I need it.
I'm not worried about if the guys understand the rules would engage.
Because I got that a little out if I need it.
I'm not that worried about deconstruction because I got that little out if they screwed up.
So I haven't out for myself.
And so I don't really put 100% effort into the planning and of what we're doing.
If I have preemptive ownership, where is this?
Hey, no matter what happens out here, it's my fault.
Guess what?
Hey, guys, do you understand the RR's?
Let me talk to you about him.
Get hey, hey, Dave, do you guys understand where the lines of limits of advance are?
So you know where you could.
Just all your guys don't understand.
Hey, do we see?
Do we have it marked out clearly?
Okay, great.
Hey, do you know, like dig in and when you dig in on stuff, then you have less of a chance of something going wrong.
But when something does go wrong and you take ownership of it, you take ownership of it.
Not to avoid trouble, but to face trouble.
Hmm.
That's what you have to do.
So my idea hasn't changed.
In fact, if I would have blamed someone else and then kept my job and someone else got inspired,
I would have had a real problem with that.
I could not have lived with myself.
I could not have been able to do that.
I wouldn't have been able to do that.
And that's why when I was trying to figure out who the blame it on, because I was, because I was looking at this big problem, because there was a lot of bad things.
And I'm thinking, I'm thinking, I'm like, okay, who's fault with this?
And I couldn't figure out why I didn't feel comfortable saying that.
Saying it was this guy, was that guy?
It'd be like this guy in the previous one, because it's Bill's fault.
I don't feel comfortable saying that.
Especially when I'm in charge, I don't feel comfortable when I'm a peer either.
If I'm, if my peer, but we're part of a team and something goes wrong, I don't feel comfortable saying it was the other guy.
Hmm.
Who does that?
Who feels good about that, right?
Don't be that person.
And only that when you see people acting that way, everybody can identify that that's a bad thing.
But they do it anyways, because they're ego.
So keep it in check.
Yeah.
Next question.
Whether directly or indirectly, I know Jockel follows this principle.
The way you do anything is the way you do everything.
This is an intro.
This question, I had to pull out because what you're going to see, it's very, I think it's a question.
Maybe you might be even more suited to answer than me.
We'll go ahead and proceed.
Interesting.
Now, let's say you're sitting on the couch.
And you want to switch the light on.
The switch is to your right.
And you know there's a 95% chance that you can reach it from where you're sitting without having to leave the couch.
What do you do?
Do you take the chance to reach it or to reach for it in vain?
And then get up.
Walk to the switch and turn it on.
Or do you get up right away and make the extra effort and get it done in the most efficient manner, regardless of if there was potentially an easier way.
I get you.
I think we know where you sit on this.
I know I'd love to give some big profound answer about this, but here's the deal.
I would accurately assess the distance of light switch.
Oh, accurately.
Accurately.
And I'd figure out the best way to turn it on.
And then I'd turn it on.
That's what I do.
I mean, if I got to get up out of that, I'd get to get better, better bed.
Or I'd pull a pull.
We on the couch.
Is that the situation?
I want to need the light on.
So yeah, we'll right get the light on my phone out and see what I got to see with the light.
Oh, you did that right?
Because I'm thinking out of the box over on my side.
That's what I'm doing.
What you do is as far as the as far as the thing the way you do anything is the way you do everything.
It's partly true, but at the same time, guess what you got to prioritize next.
Next. And there are some things that are not as important as other things.
My famous example is that my gym floor in my home gym is not clean.
Yep.
It's there's chalk on it.
There's some sweat stains.
I don't go in there three times a week with a mop and swab it and get all the chalk out and power wash it.
That's what it would take.
Maybe two times a week if I power washed it, pull all the stuff out of the garage, power wash the mats, pull them back in there, set the garage back up.
That's what it would take to keep the mats clean.
That don't care if those mats are cleaner not doesn't matter me.
Right?
I have to prioritize there's much, much, much more important things than whether my mats in my garage gym or clean doesn't matter.
Yeah.
Did you do mats are different, right?
Did you do mats got to be clean?
Yeah.
Those got to be clean.
Well, there's what we got people clean those mats after classes.
Sure.
That's a priority.
The ones at my house that just me don't matter.
That doesn't mean that I'm slacking in other areas.
Right?
There's a minimum standard in certain things like there's and even my home gym mats.
I have a vacuum and I hit them with the vacuum when I get too much dog hair on them.
Which actually I do that like every one or two days.
It takes three minutes to just vacuum dog hair.
Right?
There's a minimum standard to hold the line.
And as far as doing things the most efficient way, I try to do things the right way.
Right?
Trying to do things the right way.
Which generally that coincides with the most efficient way.
Generally.
There are.
But here, that's what he's talking about here.
So when you said, I'm a fifth and a fifth and a fifth.
Here's a thing man.
Bro, this guy, you don't, we don't have this name but man, we need to get together and talk.
This is all of this.
This is kind of stuff that I think about all the time.
Not in this obsessive way but in this end of my mind.
Man, that's a good question too.
So basically he's asking like, okay.
And it happens for literally half a second.
Maybe one whole second.
Where like, okay man, I need to light on.
What do I do?
Do I?
You know, like how he said, do I reach for it?
Because that's the easiest way.
I don't have to stand up.
He's on my leg and back muscles and stand up and walk over like just reach for it.
But if I can't reach it.
Now I got to do, expand all the energy of reaching for it.
Failing, bringing my hand back and then doing the standing up thing that I was trying to avoid in the first place.
So it's one of those things.
So what do I do man?
What do I do?
Do I just chance it?
Or do I just be like, you know, I'm not going to chance anything.
I'm just going to expand the energy.
And turn on the light.
So what do I do?
Right.
I mean, to conundrum.
Same thing with the soy sauce posts.
Same thing.
Also here's what here's what you might.
Did you see the meme?
Yes.
There's a couple memes.
There's a couple memes about you in the soy sauce balls.
I'm fed three.
One of them was like a black and white photo.
Did you see that one?
I was like a black and white photo, but it said something.
It was a black and white photo of soy sauce balls.
Oh yeah.
What did it say?
I feel like the strawberry.
The strawberry was better than the strawberry.
It was better than the strawberry was real.
Yeah.
And then they had the superhero looking guy that had the two buttons.
The two buttons.
Anyway, here's one.
And here's one that this one's a real problem.
Small but a real problem for those people.
When you're laying in bed at night, you're sleeping and you wake up.
You're like, man, I gotta take it.
I gotta use bathroom.
But not too bad.
I don't have to use bathroom bad just a little bit.
So what do I do?
Do I hold it?
Power through the discomfort because this comfort isn't that bad and hopefully I'll fall asleep.
Because I don't want to get up and wait myself up more and turn on the light and do all this stuff and walk around
Get the blood flowing and then what if I can't fall asleep as quick or whatever or I'm tired.
I don't even want to get out of bed.
You know, so what do I do?
Because if I go use a bathroom, oh man, I'll be fully relaxed.
It'll be done.
It won't keep me up.
The discomfort won't keep me up.
But if I can fall back asleep, I didn't even have to get out of bed.
I'm just saying.
So what do you do?
You're at that.
And if you really got ease about the misno issue, because it's obvious.
But if you just have to do a little bit, it's a hard question.
I can't tell you if you're talking about that.
Don't even act.
I know.
What do you mean?
I just said that you had problems.
I've been zero seconds.
I spend zero seconds thinking about that issue.
Zero.
This is no factor whatsoever in my life.
I'm going to go use bathroom.
Here's my answer to your question.
If I have to go to the bathroom, I go to the bathroom.
What if you kind of have to go to the bathroom?
There's no kind of thing.
I don't want to know.
Your back is like, if your bladder is full.
Okay, you got ease about the point.
What if your bladder is one-third full?
Then I don't have to go to the bathroom.
Okay, so you have a distinct cut off then in feelings.
You don't have that great answer.
You have that great answer.
I don't.
Alright.
So most of us, we don't have to like that.
No.
We've got to like consider.
Well the same way that this kind of has to go with.
No, no, no, no.
Anyway.
I dig it.
And that's going to be one of those ongoing challenges.
I think.
You know?
I think the main.
And I almost left that whole second half of the question because the main point
of the question was the way you do anything is the way you do everything.
Yes, that's true to a point.
You should definitely keep, you know.
You're trying to maintain consistent effort and hold the line and everything.
But the economy is that if you try and hold the line on every single thing that's not possible
and you'd spend your whole life cleaning up everything around you and fixing things.
Yeah.
What you just, the univ wasting time when you have, you need to prioritize and execute.
Pick the biggest problems.
Pick the biggest things you're going to have the most impact on you.
And then focus on those things and don't worry about some other things.
Yeah.
And that's that little conundrum is everywhere.
But sometimes it'll be vacuuming.
And then you know how like when you vacuum over like I don't know,
let's say it's a big piece of land.
You go over the vacuum once, you know.
And it doesn't go in.
You go again.
It doesn't go in.
You go, I could have picked that thing up like three, four seconds ago.
So why didn't you?
Because I thought I could have, I should get a guy with a vacuum and I wouldn't have to bend down.
You know what I mean?
It's like that kind of stuff.
It depends on the time.
It's all the time.
It's a lot of things.
It's efficiency, not laziness.
But either way, you know what though?
It's got you combined with this guy's question and answered the question with how you do everything.
You just establish a protocol.
If there's a question, you just do the guaranteed one.
If I see a piece of the land, I'm a vacuum it.
It didn't go up, boom, pick it up.
That's it.
Maybe you get a double take, right?
Yeah.
Because generally you got to go forward and back on a vacuum anyways.
You know what I'm saying?
You just rerun that same track.
Yeah.
Because you know you're going forward back, but you're offsetting a little bit.
And sometimes the back depending on your brush, depending on the back one or the back one.
Sometimes it's more powerful.
Okay.
Because the brush spins a certain way.
Interesting.
But either way, yeah.
But either way you feed.
Okay.
And then guess what?
On the forward stroke, you can go now to your next track and you can bend down grab the
piece of land.
You're good to go.
Yeah.
So then the point is establish a protocol where it's like, you know what?
I'm not going to waste my time.
No.
You know, risking it and all this stuff.
I'm just going to go for the real deal.
Pop them.
Oh, yeah.
You know what?
All right.
So I'm a firefighter slash EMT, a recently and recently I went on a call where a patient
didn't live.
Not unusual by any means.
Unfortunately, I deal with loss of life on almost a daily basis.
I detached and do my job always working to get better.
This call, I failed to detach.
It hit me hard.
When the patient's husband let out a chilling, let out chilling screams.
As his third year old wife went from alert and talking to dead within minutes.
I let myself enter into his shoes at that moment.
I got over it quick during my days off and moved on.
It's part of the job and I accept that.
But my question is, when does it become inhumane to detach?
Do we sometimes need to let some weakness through to remain grounded when dealing with such
major incidents is loss of life?
Thank you.
Okay.
First of all, sympathy and empathy are not weaknesses.
They're not weaknesses.
In fact, it actually takes strength to be able to deal with these types of situations
and these types of emotions.
The weak move would actually be to cut those emotions off completely.
So that being said, as you know, obviously there is a dichotomy.
Because you cannot let the emotions overwhelm you.
As a matter of fact, if you get overwhelmed by your feelings,
then you can't do your job properly, which in its own right is inhumane.
Because now you're not able to treat the patients that you're trying to save.
Because you're getting too emotional about it.
So what do you have to do? The answer for the millionth time of a different subject,
but comes up all the time, you've got to find balance.
You have to find balance between being emotional enough,
but not being too emotional. You have to learn to recognize if you're going too far in one direction.
Or the other, you have to do a self-assessment.
You have to look and see and make sure that that you see the people you're treating as people.
You have to look at them and make sure that you're seeing them as people.
That you're not seeing them as a hunk of meat, right?
You have to do that. You have to make sure that you're doing that.
At the same time, you cannot afford emotionally to go through the pain of loss every time you see someone die.
Because that's also going to be a problem. You can't afford emotionally to do that.
You can't go through that pain over and over and over again.
So you have to, like you said, you have to detach and normally do a good job with that.
Obviously, you guys get wounded.
I've seen guys get killed. I've been around a lot of death.
And when it was around me, I didn't have time to stop and think about it.
I had to work to do. I had to detach myself and do my job.
At the same time, when it's over and the time was appropriate,
it's like you've got to connect with what happened and make sure that you are dealing with it appropriately.
And I always think firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and police and military,
but paramedics and EMTs, you're only showing up if someone isn't a bad way.
And I know that's hard physically and it's hard mentally and it's hard emotionally.
So find a balance, keep yourself balanced, make sure you're not going too far in one direction or the other.
And thanks for doing your job.
Man, that's like easy, but sometimes you forget that about EMTs.
Like that's the only time where they spread.
I mean, pretty much.
Yeah, EMTs are getting called because someone is in a bad way.
That's the whole thing.
What they're showing up for.
And cops too.
It's easy to be on the outside when you're going to parks and if your job is like,
I don't know, I press record, make videos or whatever.
And this is like every day.
So it kind of forms this vision, my world, whatever.
But EMTs.
And every time you get to call it, it's just the question is just,
Oh, how bad.
You know, that's what it is, how bad, how bad of a situation is the person I'm about to go content with.
What's their situation?
They are, they could be everything from a minor situation to they're going to die in front of me.
Again, this new person, and their life and their kids and their family.
And you know, Peter T. talked about some of that becoming a bit jaded.
In fact, it's a pretty horrific story and it's worth listening to that podcast when he was on.
He talked about how he got to a point where some patients he started to look at like,
He'd be mad at them, mad at them.
And that's what you have to avoid is getting to this point.
You got to do your best to stay emotionally detached enough that you can do your job.
But at the same time, you can't be looking at other human beings as if they're just a piece of meat.
So, part job.
I think we got time for one more question.
I have good ideas, but I have trouble executing.
Do you have any tips?
Oh yeah.
You have some good ideas, do you?
But you can't execute.
You want to know what those ideas are worth?
There's nothing.
Ideas by themselves have zero value unless they can be brought to life.
And I have known plenty of people with plenty of ideas over the years.
Great ideas.
Amazing ideas.
But very few people can actually turn ideas into action.
And those people end up old and bitter and angry because they didn't execute their great ideas.
And so here's what you do.
You execute.
You actually make things happen.
And sometimes I'm going to tell you when you execute your idea,
it reveals the fact that your idea isn't all that good.
It's not the brilliant idea you thought it was.
And some people are actually afraid of that.
And that's what stops them.
But I'm not afraid.
I say, but bring on that failure.
Let me learn that my idea is no good.
Because even if you learn that your idea is garbage,
you know not to waste any more time dreaming about it or thinking about it.
Go on to your next idea.
But don't let these ideas just wander aimlessly around in your head.
Get them out.
Bring them to life, put them into the world, run with them.
And get some friends and family or partners.
Someone to help you.
Maybe get some people that are better at execution than you are.
And give them some ownership.
Give away those ideas.
It's better to give away those ideas than let them rot inside your head and die.
And whatever path you take, whether you force yourself to execute or you bring people into help you,
whatever path you're going to take, do it.
Do it.
Pour some life into your idea.
And like I said, you've got to remember that there's no guarantee that when you pour life into idea,
into an idea, there's no guarantee that that idea is going to come to life too.
You might pour everything you've got to that idea and it can still die.
And you might have to let it die.
You have to let the dream die because some ideas aren't good enough to live.
That's just the way it is.
But you know what?
At least give it a chance.
Don't let that idea die inside your head.
No more waiting, no more putting it off or waiting for the right time or the right people or the right alignment of things in the world.
No more of that, no more excuses, just execution.
Just go and make it happen.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
So echo Charlie while we are over here trying to make things happen.
So we have to go hard.
We have to execute.
You got anything that could possibly help us execute.
Yeah.
Our mission.
Sure.
Where do you go?
Well, talk about origin first.
This is an outstanding way to execute and maintain the execution.
So while we are doing you just to and you don't know what kind of get it yet, which would be crazy.
But hey, people are starting every day.
And when you start you do have that question.
Most of the time.
What's the maximum age for starting GJ2?
Death.
I think it's the day before you die.
The day before that could be 100, whatever.
Yeah.
The reason you don't start the day before you die is you don't want to go to your deathbed with regret.
Because as soon as you even learn a little bit of GJ2, you be like dang.
I wish I would have started that a month ago.
Yes.
Month of solid GJ2.
Yeah.
So yeah.
We have people all the time starting GJ2 all ages from four or five.
Below that, yes, you should be training.
Your little kids should be trained GJ2.
But it's more of a playful thing that you do with them because you know the techniques.
And you have them escape the mountain.
You start to have them arm lock you.
You start to have them put in that rear naked choke.
You got to make sure you tell them that the rear naked choke is dangerous and not to do it.
If you're not around because that is actually a scary thing.
I used to be a little bit nervous about that when my kids were real little.
Yeah.
They know how to rear naked choke.
You know, oh, maybe my five year old daughter slaps a rear naked choke on my two year old son.
Right.
And decides, you know, to hang onto that thing because he's crying or whatever.
So you got to be very careful with that.
Yeah.
And that's a simple deal where it's not like a knife or something.
Or something where it's like, hey, this is dangerous.
Don't you know, it's like, it's a little bit more cut in dry with the rear naked choke.
It's kind of like, okay, you have to deliberately apply the choke and execute the choke for it to be dangerous.
Not like a knife or something.
If you got little tiny kids below the, like,
For two, three, four, five, yes, you teach them basic moves.
You need to explain to them that the moves are real.
Yeah.
And they do work.
And that's I always warn the little kids about the ones kids are a little bit older than they understand.
Because it happens them and they know what's going on.
So be careful with that part of Jiu Jitsu for the little kids, but whether kids are.
For or whether you're 60 or 70 or 80 years old, go get your Jiu Jitsu on.
Going to need a G.
The G and or a Rascart action or Rascart.
And the Rascart.
At least one.
So what kind of G, origin, G.
Planeted choose from.
Planeted.
Increasing by the as time goes on.
Straight up.
All made in America.
And factually the besties in the world.
Yeah.
And when you buy an origin G, you are.
You are investing not only in yourself, but you're also investing in this great country.
As we rebuild manufacturing inside our country, bringing back the old New England factories
that they sent overseas.
We're bringing it back.
We're actually bringing it back.
We are.
We're buying equipment back from overseas.
Bringing it back here on ships.
Can you imagine that's happening right now?
We are doing that.
You are doing that.
You are making that happen.
Also.
We got jeans.
Here's the deal.
I talked to Pete.
Pete Roberts.
Origin.
I said, Pete, how many people do you know the dude, G, G, G, G?
And he's like, oh, 100.
I said, how many people do you know that own pair of jeans?
And he said, 200 million.
I said, we need to make jeans.
Everyone wants jeans.
Everyone needs jeans.
Everyone would want jeans that are not only high quality, but also made in America.
They're sold by craftsmen in Maine.
So, yeah, we got Origin jeans.
They're awesome.
We got American denim.
American denim.
Like it.
Cotton cotton.
Cotton yes.
Yeah, sewn here.
Later jean.
So is it grown?
There you go.
I was probably Pete Roberts had come up with that one.
Yeah.
A grown and so on in America.
Baby.
Boom.
There it is.
But also joggers.
Speaking of pants.
You're not allowed to do joggers, but for us who like comfort and functionality.
Maybe a twist to style, whatever this one is.
Why don't we keep bringing up joggers specifically?
Is it because of my experience with the joggers?
I like the joggers.
People like joggers.
And you can also get supplements.
We have supplements.
We have joint warfare.
We have acrylic.
We have discipline.
Go.
According to JP D'Nell.
When he takes discipline go, he can see people's thoughts.
Yeah.
I'm like, he was so fired up.
He did a, you know, an event for us long front.
He's like, he's like, I was so fired up.
I could see people's thoughts.
And I'm like, I like the way that sounds.
So discipline go.
Little new trophic to get the mind kicking.
And then you got discipline for pre-workout.
Crayloil.
Joy warfare.
Keep the bones.
The tendons.
Legiments.
Keep all that stuff.
Good to go.
Maintained.
Uninflation.
So there's inflammation.
What's the anti-inflammation?
So keep them anti-inflammed.
Keep them moving.
Keep them lubricated.
Keep them functioning.
Very important.
And in milk.
We got milk.
Some people don't even know what milk is.
And it's really easy to explain.
Milk is milk.
Yeah.
It happens to have what 22 grams of protein in there.
And protein.
Two by the way.
Which is different.
You know?
And it's delicious.
You have very delicious.
And that was, I'll talk to my friend Kenny.
The other day.
He's like, oh yeah.
So we're all doing two special about this thing.
And I got past a detached, you know.
I got past your emotional effort.
A little bit emotional.
But I was like, I started like going into this whole pitch to my friend.
By the way, it turned out to be a pitch.
But just like how it's all clean.
And we, you know, monk fruit to sweeten it.
And it's like, doesn't taste like some diet.
I think whatever's like a dessert at the end of the day.
I think I think you accepted the pitch.
The best thing to do if someone wants to know, you get mixed one up.
Yeah.
Because when as soon as you mix one up, people are like, oh, yeah.
I'm going to get it.
I'm getting this now.
Because how can this be good for you?
Yeah.
That's the question.
How can this be good for you?
Yeah.
Tastes like that.
True.
Mid chocolate, peanut butter chocolate, vanilla gorilla.
Darkness, the chocolate.
The darkness.
Darkness.
And then there's this is what I believe to be kind of epic.
Warrior kid milk.
Yes.
Because warrior kid milk, you can go to your grocery store.
And you can buy something that will flavor the milk.
So that your kids will drink milk.
But while your drink while you're giving the milk,
you're also giving them poison.
You.
Right.
Sugar poison or is enough.
Yeah.
You're going to eat enough sugar that you die.
Right.
People do it all the time.
They get diabetes.
Yeah.
So we don't want to give our kids poison.
We want to give them power.
How do we do it?
We got warrior kid milk.
We got strawberry and chocolate.
They taste amazing.
They are engineered.
The best possible food that your kids
Gonna eat.
Yeah.
Think about it.
You can say, oh, you want some dessert.
And they're get all excited.
Here, have a strawberry milkshake.
And what do they think?
Thank you.
Yeah.
Can I have more?
And you know what you say?
Sure.
Of course you can.
You can have all you want.
Yeah.
And probiotics and vitamins.
This is everything you're supposed to be eating as a child to grow up and be strong.
And a world beater.
You.
The time.
All right.
Check.
Yes.
Okay.
Also, if you want to stay in the bath and represent at the same time.
A tire wise.
Chocolate store.
It's called Jocco store.
So you're going to jocco store.com.
That's where you can get your t-shirts.
More trash.
And it's good to have more than one rash card for multiple reasons.
One is that if one gets dirty, you don't have to rush to wash it or rush to get it back in the rotation.
And necessarily.
It could be a whole decision making process.
You got to deal with it.
It's possible.
Yes.
But you know what I ran into.
And this is so psychological.
So I, you know, I, whatever, I have a bunch of rash cards.
So I get injured wearing this one rash card.
And I, I don't, why are it anymore?
Because I'm like, oh, it made me injured.
Yeah.
You think superstition.
But he's think I know that superstition is fake.
But you know what I'm superstitious about?
Being superstitious.
No, no, I don't care.
Yeah, see if it's hurt than hurt you bro.
I know, bro.
I know exactly what hurt me.
That's what makes it even worse.
Either way.
Whether that's your,
Are you going to retire the rash card that you wore today?
When were you training?
No.
Are you sure?
Cause.
I can't see.
I see what you did there.
No, that none of the way.
Rascar to work today was all good.
It was, the problem I had today was psychological.
And it wasn't really actually you were my problem.
Straight up.
You were my problem.
Yeah.
That's the extreme.
I thought it was funny though.
For all my jiditsu career, you know, if I have a good role with someone
and I, and I, and I, you know, do good against them.
A lot of times they say,
you're really strong, right?
They never say like, oh, you got good jiditsu.
They never say, oh, like I liked your guard passing.
Or, hey, you got a really good hit movement.
No, they don't say that.
Whether they say is you're strong.
Yeah.
That's what they say.
Mm.
Today I got my first kind of alternate compliment from echo Charles.
You didn't say I was strong?
No.
You said I psychologically destroyed you.
Yeah.
I know.
What was the whole thing?
Okay, so you and you've been doing this kind of recently where like,
I can't, I don't even have to be breathing hard, but just maybe just a little.
You'll like act.
You'll be like, put on this little shirt.
Like, oh, like, or all like push here or something.
You're like, oh, man.
Like, you won't say that, but your body will be like, oh, that push is so hard.
So you'll do that.
And I know what you're doing.
Obviously, because you make it obvious, but then what that does to me is like,
man, it's like,
you don't really take me seriously right now.
So it kind of makes nothing angry, but a little bit like frustrated because I'm trying to do a little.
Something else.
It sounds like something.
And then yeah, then when you wind up like doing things and then I'll kind of look at you and kind of feel.
And then you do this real good normal face kind of scenario.
And I think that I can do good normal face too, but on the inside, I don't feel normal face.
But all I see is like, you're just, just being whatever.
And it doesn't look like just so you don't on the inside and the outside, you don't.
On the inside, you don't feel normal face.
It doesn't look normal on the outside.
It looks pretty evident what's happening.
Well, I don't know.
Yeah, at the end of the day, it's sort of just crept in.
And yeah, I didn't, like, maintain the composure that I think is required to function at a, you know, at a better level than I did today.
Put it that way.
And the thing is, right when the timer goes off when we're done,
it's like, it's like a avalanche of like,
She's elective.
It's not shame.
I always think it's all part of the process.
No matter how long and painful the process is.
Did you come in today with, with a good positive attitude on the, what the outcome was going to be?
Yeah.
Do you feel good today?
Yes.
So, and it, just to be accurate, like, I don't, we always joke about this, but I don't come in thinking
you're, can you just do it?
Yeah, you're not positive.
Are you sure about that?
I don't think of that.
I know for a fact there's been days where you've come in, you, I can see it in your eyes.
You're thinking, I can do this today.
Well, not be, well, right?
I do think that yes, I can do this.
But it's not up and you kind of sometimes you bow up out of fear.
You just trying to convince yourself, you're trying to be like a peacock, right?
Sometimes that happens.
That's cool.
I don't hold it against you. I just accept it.
But sometimes you actually think like today's the big day.
And when I see that look, yeah, I think, okay.
Well, it's not about, like, okay, I'm going to like beat up, Joc.
It's not that.
It's more that, like I have a handful of things.
The handful is all you need to do is capitalize on one mistake.
Yeah.
That's all that it is.
You can just play the numbers game now, you know?
You're, you're good enough at your jutsu now.
If I make a mistake, you can capitalize on it.
You can just, you can just play the odds.
I can beat you 100 times and I can beat you 100 times,
or I can tap you out.
No, we don't even care.
It doesn't even, it doesn't even mean anything.
You roll the dice one time and you get snake eyes.
You get the big win.
Yeah.
That's where it's at.
Yeah, it'd be at 7 or 11, but yeah, well, sorry.
So, done not all good.
Yeah, it's like an insurgent situation for sure.
Yeah, yeah, you can smash me all you want, but it'll get you one time and never stay.
Yeah.
And it's normally not, like, I'm not necessarily trying to get it.
Actually, most of the time, pretty much all the time,
I'm not trying to, like, the goal is never to tap anyone out today.
It's not that it's like to, to practice new things that I feel like I'm getting a hold of.
Okay.
Again, certain levels of people.
And then, so you're not trying to tap me out.
Well, that, of course I am, but that's not like the goal for that day.
You know, it's kind of thing.
It's more like, okay, I'm going to put together this, like, defense and combine with this little thing and whatever.
And for you, it's real specific because it's like rolling with you isn't like this,
it's like, very specific scenario.
And which includes the psychological part.
Yeah.
And that's why I noticed a psychological devastation that you sort of had today is because after the time the time went off we're done,
it all came to me like, man, you just got destroyed psychologically so bad.
That goal is that you had for that specific role and for all roles with chocolate today.
Like literally didn't have anything to do with the role that you just did.
I don't go right now.
Because of like your whole mindset, you know, and it was all because of stuff you're doing.
And here's the kind of the dichotomy of it.
It's like super fun when it happens.
But because it's like the frustration is like pushing you know,
but then it's like at the end of the day, it's all just one big game, you know.
But it, it, there's a legitimate amount of frustration in there.
It's funny because I can see that dichotomy in your face.
Like I can tell that you're mad, but I can also tell that it's fun.
You know, but you do get frustrated.
Yeah, but sometimes you get legitimately like, like you make noises.
Like frustration like groans or grouse.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, but it's like at, you know how like when then you know what else you'll do?
Let's go again right now.
Right? Like a little kid. Like a six year old.
I know real, but the thing is like for a, and I say from the outside,
I can see how that could, you know what I don't like.
You know what I don't like.
You know what I don't like is when I tap someone out.
Let's say I'm in, I'm in a half guard and I tap someone out with something.
And I let go.
And then they're like, then they want to keep going like, as if that just didn't happen.
Oh, from that exact position.
You know, like that to me today.
Yeah. And I was like, I mean, it's not, it's not like it's a big deal.
But I was, I then I'm like, okay, because you know, I mean, I did whatever move I did.
And then I let go, you tap and then I let go of it.
Right.
And then it's like, we'll just keep going.
Yeah.
And I'm like, what, what, why would we keep going?
You just, you just submitted.
Yeah.
And there's other, the other thing is sometimes people,
I think you've done this to me like maybe 10 times.
No, maybe five times where you tap.
And then like, I let go. And then you like come at me.
Like you like you like double leg or whatever you like grab.
And you try it.
You know, and that's another one.
I'm like, okay.
Yeah.
I see where I see how this is going.
And I think you're doing that out of frustration.
Yeah.
Taurus chili.
Partially out of like, you understand sometimes you want to learn what just happened, right?
Like he put me back in that position.
Yes.
Cool.
Yeah.
I get that part too.
And even that kind of bothers me again.
But I could see, you know what, though, from an offensive standpoint,
like from your position and someone's like, okay, we start from there.
It's kind of like, you know the, it's like, not linear,
but you know the path of, like, from start to finish that whole path is like a big
creative learning battle fight twins losses like a, it's a whole path.
I think that's why it bothers me because I like that whole thing.
Yeah.
And I completed that whole thing.
That whole thing of, because let's face it.
It's a big.
There's a lot of things that go on.
There's a lot of things that happen from from, we start rolling or you start rolling with someone
to someone submits.
There's all kinds of things.
Especially you're starting standing.
You got to take down a contend with.
You got guard passing.
You got guard recovery.
You got switch.
Get all these things to get to this point where you can actually submit somebody.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden we're just going to skip 85% of that battle, which by the way,
from my perspective, all that time, all that battle is I'm maneuvering the whole time.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It's like a part of my game.
It's all part of me getting that submission.
Sommission doesn't start when I hit the mat.
The submission, it starts before we shake hands.
That whole.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
So when we skip a big chunk of the, I like that whole part of the battle.
So when we skip it, I just feel like, oh, that's kind of weird.
Yeah.
And I just jumped to the end of the good song that has the guitar solo.
Like, no, you got to listen the whole song, man.
Yeah.
I appreciate that thing.
You're right.
A good movie, right?
Let's just skip to the scene where the battle takes place.
You have you ever done that?
You just watch the battle scene.
It's not as good as when you watch the whole.
Right.
You're going to want to hear the whole.
I want the whole build up to take place.
Yeah.
I just want to watch the battle scene.
That's actually, that's good.
And I might actually glide that we kind of analyze it because,
Yeah.
Because it could be looked at.
I always looked at it because I've done that.
Like, I don't always do that.
No, actually.
You've done it probably five times.
We've rolled thousands of times.
Yeah.
And it's like, okay, can we start from there kind of thing?
And it's a little bit different.
A little bit different is like, hey, can you just,
wait, put that back on me?
Let me see if I could get out.
Okay, you got out cool now.
We'll start again.
Right.
Now, I'm not talking about that.
Yeah.
That was made.
And I've done that before.
Really rarely.
But I looked at it as shoot.
That was like a plot.
Like, I made a legitimate mistake right there.
Let me like get back in that mindset and continue actually rolling.
I think that's part of what bothers me.
Yeah.
It's not up to me.
I think part of what bothers me is I think to myself.
Oh, you just made this little mistake.
And it was kind of a flu.
Right.
That's what you're implying is like, oh, this is just a little flu.
And it's like, you're lucky that won't happen again.
Yeah.
That's like, sometimes people get mad when I submit them.
Not very rarely.
And I'm always like, man, is that much of an insult that I just sat to.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, I'm not.
When somebody taps me on, I'm not mad at them.
Oh.
I'm like, dang.
Nice job.
That was awesome.
Good job.
Yeah.
But yeah.
I think people are mean anyway.
It's like any time when we get like anything's out of frustration.
It's literally like maybe a 30% frustration, 70% you're just a guy that can take that kind of abuse.
You know, like, if you're like, okay, good, you know, you got me out.
And then you turn your back to reset.
And yeah, jump on your back or take it on whatever.
Like you can do that normally.
Yeah.
No.
And even when you do it to me, it's not like you.
You haven't ever like jumped and like put a rear-note could choke on or something like that.
Yeah.
You've kind of jumped into a slightly advantageous, but normal position for us to be in.
Which is no big deal.
Yeah.
You have taken my back a couple times.
But and then even then like, bro, we've been in this thing for long time where it's.
Let's say I got it.
Maybe that might, would that even bother you?
Let's say I jump on your back in one of those situations.
Then I got the rear-note get you.
Yeah.
And I finished it.
You, well, I would kind of be like, well, we both know.
You know, like, right?
It's very catchy.
Yeah.
I took it down.
But real quick, back to the, uh, the path.
You know, like, when you, when you want to, like, you double guy out any once to start from that same position or whatever.
Yeah.
If you look at that path, that whole path that is so, let's, this, this, that's a valuable path.
Every path that you create.
It's like learning and it's this big thing and it's fun.
There's little competitiveness in there, whatever.
And at the end, you finish each path as like this tree or whatever.
It's done.
You finish it with your submission when you win or when you lose.
To entraining or even in competition.
You win or you lose.
You can't, like, after you win and complete your masterpiece path of wins and losing in a through the whole thing and you're done.
That guy just can't step in and be like, no, it's not done.
It's just sort of paused on my, like, right, you can't jump in and dictate that.
So if you lost, rather than you've got to start all over and try to create something else.
No, you know, try to do try new song.
You can't just, oh, yeah.
But at the same time.
If you're looking at, like, training rolling as just practice, just training.
Just, you know, whatever.
And so, yeah.
There's a big difference between, hey, we're going to actually practice right now.
And we're going to roll.
Yeah, because rolling is understood that is competitive.
That's the whole reason it works so good.
Yeah.
It has to be competitive.
So yes, that's why when you taught me out, I do consider it.
No matter how much percentage, whatever.
I do consider it.
You beat me straight up in practice and training.
You beat me because there's a significant amount of competition right there.
So yeah, you can't be messing with the other guys wins and do that.
Yeah.
You're right.
I can't, I'm never doing that ever again.
If you want to do it, it's fine.
I'm the same.
It's not.
It's not fine.
I'm not doing it.
I don't want to be that guy to do it, even.
It's being that guy.
Nonetheless, back to representing on Jockel's from Jockel's store.
Jockel has stuff.
Shirts and rash guards and poodies, hats.
Cool stuff.
You want to represent on the path.
If you, okay, so I made the new, a new good shirt.
I think it's on there.
Yeah, it's on there.
Hmm.
It's just, it's good.
It's good.
It's good literally.
It says good on it with the font.
But it does not have your head on it.
So it's way more basic.
Cool.
That's the one where like you really got to be in the know.
You see it in the wild.
You're gonna be like, if you listen, you know.
Yeah.
You see the dude that got good on his thumbs.
I think it was his thumbs.
Oh yeah.
Joc on one and OD on the other.
Yeah, man.
Tattoo.
I dig it.
Yeah.
In proper font, by the way.
It's keeping the game.
Yeah.
So yeah, if you want to represent on the path,
Jockelstore.com.
If you like something, get something.
White tea, Jockel White tea, available.
Drinking it right now from the can, which it comes in.
Tasty and good for you.
And also the tea bag.
You can get that stuff on Amazon.
And if you get it, you can definitely have
8,000 pounds, which is awesome.
Yeah.
So that's something.
And if you want to subscribe to the podcast,
if you haven't already.
I'm just going to leave it at that.
If you haven't already,
hey, subscribe.
If you want.
You don't have to say anything about the warrior kid podcast.
Just release two new warrior kid podcast.
22 and 23.
Get some questions for Uncle Jake.
Here's some stories from Uncle Jake about when he was a kid.
Also got warrior kid soap from Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
There's now troopers soap.
Yeah.
With the rope.
So panorop.
Yeah.
So Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
Aiden is up there making soap on his farm.
And what he wants us all to do is stay clean.
Did you tell him?
And then now he wants us to stay clean.
Are you just sort of, you know, imposing your tagline?
I impose the whole deal.
I'm going to go with you.
All right.
I dig it either way.
Also, YouTube.
If you want to.
If you're interested in the video version of this podcast.
Or you want to just see excerpts of whatever the podcast.
Get on YouTube.
That's what you get.
There's also videos that echo perceives as very legit because he made him.
You're the one who's where legit.
Jake also psychological warfare and iTunes Google play.
MP3 platforms everywhere.
This is a album where I can help you in little moments of weakness.
Get over that moment of weakness and get yourself to stay on the path.
If you want something visual to help you stay on the path,
check out flipsidecanvist.com.
It's a little company owned by my brother Dakota Meyer podcast 115,
by the way, absolutely an epic podcast to hear and listen to and to be a part of with Dakota.
And we became good friends after that.
And he's got this company.
Flipsidecanvist.com.
And he is making pictures, canvases, posters that are cool.
And we'll help you stay on the path.
There's a discipline.
It goes freedom one.
There's one that says good on it.
If there's anything else you want, let me know on the social media.
And Dakota will make it happen.
Take it.
Also, when you're expanding your home gym,
you're going to want to put on it for your stuff.
Rings, jump ropes, kettle bells, primal bells.
Star Wars kettle bells as well.
Anyway, a lot of good stuff on there.
You got some immune stuff for your immune system.
Some of that is a lot of real good stuff on that go to on it.com slash jocca.
Really good stuff.
Also, we got some books.
Mikey in the dragons.
Mikey in the dragons is about a little kid that's trying to overcome some fear.
And by reading a book, the book is called the Dragon Prince.
Check it out, Mikey in the dragons.
Also, way the warrior kid.
One, two, and soon to be three.
That's a series of books about a kid.
That's having kind of normal trouble that kids have.
But he's got an uncle, uncle Jake.
Who used to be in the team.
Somebody comes and tells us, cousin out.
Yeah, this is, cousin is his nephew.
He comes and helps his nephew out.
So those are called the way the warrior kid.
Mark's mission and where there's a will.
His book, three, also just put in equals freedom field manual.
That's a book that you need.
Or it's a book you can give.
I'm super stoked when I meet people and they say,
Yep, I've given 28 copies of the Disponucle freedom field menu
or a way to other people and my family, other friends that I have.
I, because it will help people get on the path and live a better life.
That's a powerful thing.
If you can actually help someone live a better life,
there's a manual on how to live your life.
It's called the Disponucle Freedom Field Manual.
It's not a normal book.
It's not normal.
My publisher, when he was publishing it,
he said this book is the biggest risk that he has ever taken
in his publishing career.
And he also said, and we're actually my agent told me once the book came out.
The book sold more than any scenario that they had predicted for the book.
So they, you know, they do these predictions.
If it sells, it sells, it sells, it sells, it sells, it sells,
it sells, it sells, the other thing.
There's something called 100% cell through rate,
which means every single book that got shipped got sold.
It does not happen. And then they're back ordered and had to make more.
Now the book is still selling like that.
Disponucle Freedom Field Manual.
Why does it keep selling?
Because people read it and they get it for people they know.
So check it out.
It is the manual telling you how to get on the path and stay on the path.
The audio version of that book is not on audible.
It's on iTunes.
It's on Amazon.
Music, it's on Google Play and other MP3 platforms.
Of course, there is extreme ownership.
The first book that I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin, about the combat leadership principles that we learn on the battlefield and how you can apply them to your business and life.
And we followed that book up with the book called the dichotomy and leadership, which,
well, some people are saying, it's better than extreme ownership.
Read it, judge for yourself.
Tell us what you think.
I think if you read extreme ownership,
when you read dichotomy, a lot of things are going to fall into place.
A lot of little things that you didn't quite have at the way you wanted it to be.
When you read dichotomy, it's going to come into place.
Also, we got echelon front, which is our leadership consultancy.
We solved problems through leadership.
That's what we do.
It's me, Dave Babin, JP, to now Dave Burke, Flynn, Cochran, Mike Surrely, Mike Bima.
And our latest addition to the team, Master Chief Seal, retired Jason Gardner.
And our new student, Asheline, from dot com, if you want us to come work with your company, the
Master, we got three masters this year.
All masters ever have sold out.
These are going to sell out well, as well.
There's May 23rd and 24th in Chicago, September 19th and 20th in Denver.
December 4th and 5th in Sydney, Australia.
We got a lot of extreme ownership dot com.
If you want to come to these things, just go and register.
I had friends, friends that said, hey, you know, I didn't really sign up.
Can you just give me a couple tickets?
And I'm like, actually, no, I can't.
Because we can't fit any more people in the building.
So no.
So I can't help you if you wait too long.
Register, get on it early.
And if you want to come to this company, this is our interactive leadership training.
If you want to get everyone in your company aligned, you want everyone in your company to
understand the fundamental principles of extreme ownership.
If you want them to understand the fundamental laws of combat that we used on the battlefield
and that we have now taught two scores of businesses.
If you want to have that training, you can go to EF online.
It's interactive.
It's you have to make decisions.
It's choose your own adventure.
It's tests.
It's briefings.
It's everything.
And it's awesome.
So check out EF online.com.
Also, EF Overwatch where we are connecting proven leaders from the spec ops and combat aviation
communities with companies in this building sector.
Now here's the thing.
You might think, well, I've got to hire somebody that's experienced in this industry.
That's a good thought.
I understand where you're coming from.
What I recommend to you try is instead of hiring a person that has experienced in the industry
have hired somebody that has experienced in something more important that is leadership.
You can teach them and they can learn very quickly the industry that you're bringing them into.
What you can't teach someone and when you can't give them is 20 years, 25 years, 22 years of leadership experience
in the most high stakes business there is and that is war.
So go to EF Overwatch.com.
If you want to hire someone like that or if you are in that position of your vet and you want to look to get placed into a company.
That's looking for leadership. EF Overwatch.com.
And if you want to spend even more time with Echo Charles and myself because for some reason you think 500 hours of podcast isn't enough for you.
We are out there. We are lurking on the inner webs on Twitter, on Instagram and on Facebook.
Bookie.
Moja. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and thanks to all the people in uniform for your service.
That's our military personnel.
Also our police and law enforcement correction officers, border patrols, all first responders and tonight especially the firefighters,
which is Paramedics EMTs who face suffering and death on a daily basis and they learn how to handle it.
They learn how to stay balanced. They learn how to detach but not too much.
Thanks for all of you for providing us the freedom and security that we enjoy every day and to everyone else that's listening.
You have ideas and dreams and you have vision and that's cool.
That's awesome.
But none of that means anything unless you execute.
So execute, move forward, take action and you know what, maybe your idea works, maybe it doesn't.
And if it doesn't and try another one and maybe none of them will ever work and that's fine because in the end
at a minimum you know at least you went out there and got after it.
So until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.